[DatePicker] Migrate docs (#12)
mui-org/core-plus-pickers: docs/src/pages/components/date-picker/date-picker.md

---
title: DatePicker React component
components: DatePicker
---

# Date picker

<p class="description">Date pickers let users select a date, or a range of dates.</p>

> [Date pickers](https://material.io/components/pickers/) let users select a date, or a range of dates. They should be suitable for the context in which they appear.

Reviewer: It's a topology

```suggestion
[Date pickers](https://material.io/components/pickers/) let users select a date, or a range of dates.
```

- Dialogs on mobile
- Text field dropdowns on desktop

## Basic usage

> Will be rendered to modal dialog on mobile and textfield with popover on desktop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The date picker will be rendered to modal dialog on mobile and textfield with popover on desktop.
```

## Responsiveness

The date picker component is designed and optimized for the device it runs on.

- The "Mobile" version works best for touch devices and small screens.
- The "Desktop" version works best for mouse devices and large screens.

By default, the `DatePicker` component uses a `@media (pointer: fine)` media query to determine which version to use.
This can be customized by `desktopModeMediaQuery` prop.

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/ResponsiveDatePickers.js"}}

## Localization

Use `LocalizationProvider` to change the date-engine locale that is using to render date picker. Here is an example of changing locale for `date-fns` adapter:

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/LocalizedDatePicker.js"}}

## Views playground

> It is also allowed to combine `year`, `month` and `date` selection views. Views will appear in the order they passed to the `views` array.

Reviewer: Serial comma

```suggestion
It is also allowed to combine `year`, `month`, and `date` selection views. Views will appear in the order they passed to the `views` array.
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/ViewsDatePicker.js"}}

## Static mode

> It is possible to render any picker without modal/popover and text field. This can be really helpful to build custom popover/modal containers.

Reviewer: filler word

```suggestion
It is possible to render any picker without modal/popover and text field. This can be helpful to build custom popover/modal containers.
```

> {{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePicker.js"}}

Reviewer: For a better-looking demo?

```suggestion
{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePicker.js", "bg": true}}
```

<img width="527" alt="Capture d’écran 2020-08-26 à 17 24 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3165635/91323388-1d082980-e7c1-11ea-9ae5-6af78fc2d592.png">

But we should likely remove the Paper component or background color from the static version

Author: Cool! So no need in the additional Paper wrapper

It is possible to render any picker without the modal/popover and text field. This can be helpful to build custom popover/modal containers.

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePickerDemo.js", "bg": true}}

## Landscape orientation

> For ease of use the date picker will automatically change the layout between portrait and landscape by subscription to the `window.orientation` change. You can force a specific layout using `orientation` prop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For ease of use the date picker will automatically change the layout between portrait and landscape by subscription to the `window.orientation` change. You can force a specific layout using the `orientation` prop.
```

> When date picker is used in landscape orientation it is too hard to use it, especially on mobile. That's why it will automatically change the layout by subscription to the `window.orientation` change. You can force specific layout using `orientation` prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When date picker is used in landscape orientation it is too hard to use it, especially on mobile. That's why it will automatically change the layout by subscription to the `window.orientation` change. You can force a specific layout using `orientation` prop.
```

> {{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePickerLandscape.js"}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePickerLandscape.js", "bg": true}}
```

## Custom input component

You can customize rendering input by `renderInput` prop. But make sure you will spread `ref` and `inputProps` correctly to the custom input component.

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/CustomInput.js"}}

## Customize day rendering

> The displaying of dates is heavily cusomizable. Use `renderDay` function to customize view of the day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The displayed days are customizable with the `renderDay` function prop.
```

You can leverage our internal [Day](/api/Day) component, and render it in default way by spreading `dayProps` argument.

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/CustomDay.js"}}

## Dynamic data

Sometimes it's required to display additional info right in the calendar. Here is an example of prefetching

> and displaying server side data using `onMonthChange`, `loading` and `renderDay` props.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and displaying server-side data using `onMonthChange`, `loading`, and `renderDay` props.
```

---
title: DatePicker React component
components: DatePicker, PickersDay
---

# Date picker

> <p class="description">Date pickers let users select a date.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p class="description">Date pickers let the user select a date.</p>
```

> [Date pickers](https://material.io/components/pickers/) let users select a date. Date pickers are displayed with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Date pickers](https://material.io/components/pickers/) let the user select a date. Date pickers are displayed with:
```

- Dialogs on mobile
- Text field dropdowns on desktop

## Basic usage

Will be rendered to modal dialog on mobile and textfield with popover on desktop.

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/BasicDatePicker.js"}}

## Responsiveness

The date picker component is designed and optimized for the device it runs on.

- The "Mobile" version works best for touch devices and small screens.
- The "Desktop" version works best for mouse devices and large screens.

By default, the `DatePicker` component uses a `@media (pointer: fine)` media query to determine which version to use.

> This can be customized by `desktopModeMediaQuery` prop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be customized with the `desktopModeMediaQuery` prop.
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/ResponsiveDatePickers.js"}}

## Localization

> Use `LocalizationProvider` to change the date-engine locale that is using to render date picker. Here is an example of changing locale for `date-fns` adapter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `LocalizationProvider` to change the date-engine locale that is used to render the date picker. Here is an example of changing the locale for the `date-fns` adapter:
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/LocalizedDatePicker.js"}}

## Views playground

> It is also allowed to combine `year`, `month`, and `date` selection views. Views will appear in the order they passed to the `views` array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to combine `year`, `month`, and `date` selection views. Views will appear in the order they passed to the `views` array.
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/ViewsDatePicker.js"}}

## Static mode

> It is possible to render any picker without modal/popover and text field. This can be helpful to build custom popover/modal containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to render any picker without the modal/popover and text field. This can be helpful to build custom popover/modal containers.
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePickerDemo.js", "bg": true}}

## Landscape orientation

> When date picker is used in landscape orientation it is too hard to use it, especially on mobile. That's why it will automatically change the layout by subscription to the `window.orientation` change. You can force a specific layout using `orientation` prop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For ease of use the date picker will automatically change the layout between portrait and landscape by subscription to the `window.orientation` change. You can force a specific layout using `orientation` prop.
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/StaticDatePickerLandscape.js", "bg": true}}

## Custom input component

> You can customize rendering input by `renderInput` prop. But make sure you will spread `ref` and `inputProps` correctly to the custom input component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize rendering of the input with the `renderInput` prop. Make sure to spread `ref` and `inputProps` correctly to the custom input component.
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/CustomInput.js"}}

> ## Customize day rendering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Customized day rendering
```

The displayed days are customizable with the `renderDay` function prop.

> You can take advantage of the internal [PickersDay](/api/PickersDay) component. 

Reviewer: Two issues. Urls need a leading slash, Urls are in snack-case.

`/api/pickers-day/`

> You can leverage our internal [Day](/api/Day) component, and render it in default way by spreading `dayProps` argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can take advantage of the internal [Day](/api/Day) component, and render it in default way by spreading `dayProps` argument.
```
"in default way" - not sure what this means?

Author: Yeah I think it is out of date sentence 
```suggestion
You can take advantage of the internal [PickersDay](/api/PickersDay) component. 
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/date-picker/CustomDay.js"}}

## Dynamic data

> Sometimes it's required to display additional info right in the calendar. Here is an example of prefetching

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes it may be necessary to display additional info right in the calendar. Here is an example of prefetching
```

> and displaying server-side data using `onMonthChange`, `loading`, and `renderDay` props.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and displaying server-side data using the `onMonthChange`, `loading`, and `renderDay` props.
```
